About us-
Excalibur Fencing Club was founded in 2007, by Coach Lee. What started as a small foil-only fencing school with only 13 initial members has grown into 
a highly rated club with over 50 active members, stretching across all weapons, ages and experience levels. 
The club motto- Determination Percerverance and Victory- demonstrates our club's dedication to the training and advancement of the next generation of 
young fencers and potential Olympic athletes. We are a club that takes training seriously, but also recognise that fencing is a recreational sport, not only professional. 
Our coaches bring years of experience on the piste to their coaching methods and they all have Level 3 coaching certificates in all three weapons.

The team aspect of our members is important to our club. All fencers who compete for our club recieve an iron-on badge to adhere to their fencing uniform to set them 
apart from their competitors and to show that they are a memeber of Team Excalibur. 


Our Coaches:
Coach Lee- The club's main fencing coach. He used to compete internationally in foil during the 90s, before beginning coaching in the early 2000s. 
	Coach Lee began coaching within schools before branching out and opening this school. He remains the head coach of the club, and leads all of the advanced sessions. 
Coach Smith- The club's main epee coach. He used to compete at a high national level in epee, before retiring from competitions to focus on training the next generation of 
	epee fencers 6 years ago. He has been with our school since 2019.
Coach Davis- The club's main sabre coach. He used to compete internationally in sabre. Following an injury in 2014, he decided to turn to coaching, and gave international 
	competitions a backseat. Coach Davis is also the in-house armourer. He maintains all of the club weapons, and will fix members'weapons in advance of tournaments. 
All of our coaches are qualified to train each weapon, though they all have their own particular speciality. 


About the Sport-
Some Fencing terms:
Foil- One of the three fencing swords. A light weapon in which points are scored though stabbing motions. On the tip of each foil is a blunt tip that depresses when 
	it makes contact with an opponent's body. Only hits made to an opponent's torso, and that land on the lame are considered to be valid hits in foil.
	Hits to any other part of the body will be considered off-target, and will not award the player a point. Foil is also subject to "right of way" rules.
Epee- One of the three fencing swords. Slighly heavier han foil, points in epee are also scored with a stabbing motion. The main difference between the weapons is the 
	available target area. In epee, any part of the opponent's body is valid. Due to the entire body being a target, epee fencers do not wear lames. Furthermore,
	simultaneious points can be called, in which both of the fencers score a point. This is unique to this weapon alone. 
Sabre- One of the three fencing swords. In sabre, points are scored by making slashing motions, and the entire blade, not just the tip, is conductive. Due to this, points
	can be scored  with the lightest contact between the blade and the lame. The valid sabre target is from the head to the waist, with the arms included in the target area.
	Like foil, this weapon has right of way rules, though it is usually fenced at a far faster speed. 
Lame- A light conductive jacket that is worn over the usual fencing whites. It is worn only for fencing foil and sabre, and the length of the sleeve varies depending on the weapon.
	A foil lame will have no sleeves, while a sabre lame has full-length sleeves. 
Piste- The area on which fencers conduct matches. An average piste has a width of 1.5 meters and is 14 meters long. The materials can vary. 
	Most competition pistes are either made of metal or conductive rubber. 
Poule- During competitions, all of the fencers of a certain weapon are split into a number off smaller groups, in which each fencer fights every other fencer in the group.
	There are usually 2 rounds of poule per competition, before splitting off into direct elimination matches based on fencer rankings that are tabulated from 
	the results of the poules.
Direct Elimination- In comeptitions, after the poules, the fencers are ranked and then placed into a table of 128 or 64 (depending on the number of competitors- the table can go as large as 256). 
	In large competitions, only a certain number of the top fencers will advance from poules into the Direct Elimination rounds to fence off for medals.
Bout- The individual rounds of fencing. Usually split into 3 minutes, with 5 points needing to be scored during that time. This may vary 
En Garde, Pret, Allez- Signals the start of the match. Fencers are not permitted to begin fencing prior to "Allez". Doing so may result in a warning or yellow card from the referee.
FIE- (Fédération Internationale d'Escrime) The International Fencing Federation is the global governing body of Olympic fencing.  

If you would like to read more in depth about the sport, visit the Wikipedia page on fencing. (the words wikipdia page are a link to the wiki page)
Videos of fencing matches can be found on Youtube on the Olympic channel or the FIE Fencing Channel. 
(info for this section was taken from the wikipedia page and the offical FIE website. 


Schedule
Our classes are split into 4 main groups- Beginners, Advanced, a Mixed level free fencing session once a week and Private lessons, with the beginners classes further split into 
childern's and Teens/ Adults classes. Our advanced class admits students of all ages and fencers need a recommendation from one of our coaches to join the advance class.
All new members are asked to attend a 30 minute one-on-one intro session prior to their first class in order to get an assessment of prior experience level. 

All of our classes are 2 hours long, with the exception of the Children's Beginner sesssion, which is 1 1/2 hrs long. 
-The Beginner Teen/Adult and Mixed Advance classes are split into a 5 minute warmup, followed by 30 minutes of conditioning and footwork and the 25 minutes of bladework before breaking into 
free fencing for the last hour of the class. 
-Beginners youth (ages 6-12) classes are split into a 5 minute warm-up, 25 minute conditioning and footwork, 20 minute bladework and free fencing for the remaining 40 minutes of class.
Our Friday Free Fencing sessions are open to members of all ages and experience levels. Unlike the other classes during the week, Free Fencing sessions are completely open 
to fencing. There is no group warm-up, though all fencers are advised to do their own short warm-up prior to taking to the piste. 
The full 2 hour class is dedicated to fencing on piste, with Private Lessons also available.
Private lessons are not required for our students, but they are advised for those who wish to seriously compete at a national level. 
Private lessons are available every day during the free fencing segment of the class, and last 20 minutes. Private lessons are separate from the regular classes,
and such are priced separately. 

The club provides gear for all beginner members to make use of. It is required for fencers who wish to be in the advanced class to provide their own full set of gear. 


Pricing-
Our prices are set by the number of classes attended each week, and are billed monthly.
2x a week= 120 per week
3x a week= 150 per week
Unlimited= 175 per week
Private lessons= 1 private 20 minute session for 50euro, or a bundle of 10 lessons for 450.

Events-
On the 13th of March, Coach Park is hosting a special Foil Camp. 
It will be held from 10am- 4pm. There will be an hour lunch break from 12-1pm. 
There are a limited number of spots, so be sure to sign up soon! 
Each spot is 250 per fencer. 

The Annual Spring Break Camp is now open for sign-ups. It will run for 1 week, from the 15th to the 19th of March.
It is open to all weapons and experience levels. The sessions will run daily from 10am-4pm, with an hour break from 12-1pm. 
During this week, all classes will still be held at their normal times.
The club will provide water and a camp t-shirt (so be sure to specify size when signing up).
Cost for the week is 1000 per fencer. 





